cobalt/black_box_tests/README.md, before:

# Cobalt Black Box Test Framework

## Overview

Black Box Test is a place to put End-To-End tests of the Cobalt process. Black
Box Tests can launch, send signals to, and terminate Cobalt using platforms'
app launcher. Black Box Tests can also control Cobalt using JavaScript or
webdriver and can be used to test multiple restarts of the Cobalt process and
data that persists between them. They can also be used to test Cobalt's
interaction with different web server behavior.

### Some examples of things you can test using the Black Box Tests:
  1. Persistent Cookies between consecutive Cobalt sessions.
  2. Basic functionalities after resuming from suspend state.
  3. Re-fetch network requests after network shortage.


## Running Tests:

  1. To run all tests:

     $ python path/to/black_box_tests.py --platform PLATFORM --config CONFIG

     e.g.
     $ python path/to/black_box_tests.py --platform linux-x64x11 --config
       devel


  2. To run an individual test:

     $ python path/to/black_box_tests.py --platform PLATFORM --config CONFIG
       --test_name TEST_NAME

     e.g.
     $ python path/to/black_box_tests.py --platform linux-x64x11 --config devel
       --test_name preload_font


## Tests

Each script in tests/ includes one python unittest test case.
In a test script, you can perform any webdriver operations on Cobalt through
BlackBoxCobaltRunner class.


## BlackBoxCobaltRunner

A wrapper around the app launcher. BlackBoxCobaltRunner includes a webdriver
module attached to the app launcher's Cobalt instance after it starts running.
Includes a method(HTMLTestsSucceeded()) to check test result on the JavaScript
side. Call this method to wait for JavaScript test result.
black_box_test_js_util.js provides some utility functions that are meant to
work with runner.HTMLTestsSucceeded() in the python test scripts. Together,
they allow for test logic to exist in either the python test scripts or
JavaScript test data.
e.g. Call OnEndTest() to signal test completion in the JavaScripts,
HTMLTestsSucceeded() will react to the signal and return the test status of
JavaScript test logic.


## Test Data

A default local test server will be launcher before any unit test starts to
serve the test data in black_box_tests/testdata/. The server's port will be
passed to the app launcher to fetch test data from.
Test data can include target web page for Cobalt to open and any additional
resource(font file, JavaScripts...).
Tests are free to start their own HTTP servers if the default test server is
inadequate(e.g. The test is testing that Cobalt handles receipt of a specific
HTTP server generated error code properly).


## Adding a New Test

  1. Add a python test script in tests/.
  2. Add target web page(s) and associated resources(if any) to testdata/.
  3. Add the test name(name of the python test script) to black_box_tests.py
     to automate new test. Add the name to either the list of tests requiring
     app launcher support for system signals(e.g. suspend/resume), or the list
     of tests that don't.

Commit message:

Add comments and README for setup step in BlackBoxTests.
Change-Id: I00f0f46cda2cd78acb4d6d3850d5406a4bd763e2

Former-commit-id: 05fcfa3dd9f06bacdf05eee59d1f322ce701ac4d

cobalt/black_box_tests/README.md, after:

# Cobalt Black Box Test Framework

## Overview

Black Box Test is a place to put End-To-End tests of the Cobalt process. Black
Box Tests can launch, send signals to, and terminate Cobalt using platforms'
app launcher. Black Box Tests can also control Cobalt using JavaScript or
webdriver and can be used to test multiple restarts of the Cobalt process and
data that persists between them. They can also be used to test Cobalt's
interaction with different web server behavior.

### Some examples of things you can test using the Black Box Tests:
  1. Persistent Cookies between consecutive Cobalt sessions.
  2. Basic functionalities after resuming from suspend state.
  3. Re-fetch network requests after network shortage.


## Running Tests:

  1. To run all tests:

     $ python path/to/black_box_tests.py --platform PLATFORM --config CONFIG

     e.g.
     $ python path/to/black_box_tests.py --platform linux-x64x11 --config
       devel


  2. To run an individual test:

     $ python path/to/black_box_tests.py --platform PLATFORM --config CONFIG
       --test_name TEST_NAME

     e.g.
     $ python path/to/black_box_tests.py --platform linux-x64x11 --config devel
       --test_name preload_font


## Tests

Each script in tests/ includes one python unittest test case.
In a test script, you can perform any webdriver operations on Cobalt through
BlackBoxCobaltRunner class.


## BlackBoxCobaltRunner

A wrapper around the app launcher. BlackBoxCobaltRunner includes a webdriver
module attached to the app launcher's Cobalt instance after it starts running.
Includes a method(JSTestsSucceeded()) to check test result on the JavaScript
side. Call this method to wait for JavaScript test result.
black_box_test_js_util.js provides some utility functions that are meant to
work with runner.JSTestsSucceeded() in the python test scripts. Together,
they allow for test logic to exist in either the python test scripts or
JavaScript test data.
e.g. Call OnEndTest() to signal test completion in the JavaScripts,
JSTestsSucceeded() will react to the signal and return the test status of
JavaScript test logic; another example is that when python script wants to wait
for some setup steps on JavaScript, call runner.WaitForJSTestsSetup(). Calling
setupFinished() in JavaScript whenever ready will unblock the wait.


## Test Data

A default local test server will be launcher before any unit test starts to
serve the test data in black_box_tests/testdata/. The server's port will be
passed to the app launcher to fetch test data from.
Test data can include target web page for Cobalt to open and any additional
resource(font file, JavaScripts...).
Tests are free to start their own HTTP servers if the default test server is
inadequate(e.g. The test is testing that Cobalt handles receipt of a specific
HTTP server generated error code properly).


## Adding a New Test

  1. Add a python test script in tests/.
  2. Add target web page(s) and associated resources(if any) to testdata/.
  3. Add the test name(name of the python test script) to black_box_tests.py
     to automate new test. Add the name to either the list of tests requiring
     app launcher support for system signals(e.g. suspend/resume), or the list
     of tests that don't.
